there's been other ones the ones that
they go into like supermarkets and doles
I don't know those things
I'm trying to put myself to two and a
half years ago when I was in vegan if I
was just buying my stuff and then people
come in like you know like I think I
would have made me think about it but in
a way they're it's too in-your-face it's
too like no it's like people saying
Jesus right I feel it it's too much and
that's why we were so it's also the
opposite of Socratic method right
Socrates didn't try to change his
society by breaking down weeping on the
street by having this kind of anguished
and vulnerable so I'm here at the
official animal rights conference in
Toronto Canada that's the name official
name where I met Hyrule who knows my
channel Hyrule is also in the club of
people names that are difficult to spell
and we're conferences literally all
washed out a bit of a disaster and he
just proposed to me said look why don't
I pull you over and talked about this
they're kind of two topics you want to
talk about one is Socratic method yep
and solo disruptions as well right okay
look but in terms of broaching this
topic core everyone wouldn't you say
that in a sense Socratic method and
disruption are two mutually exclusive or
contrasting Elmo yeah okay so I'm part
of I'm a videographer and I have my own
YouTube channel as well and then with
one of my link in the description thank
you subscribe you know like make sure
you follow him too okay so with my
friend Mitch he he created this
organization I would call it I guess
liberate and and what he wanted was to
do solo disruptions he said hey we've
done DXE this
options and that's why I wanted to drive
to you and he's like we always have to
wait for them to organize this massive
things and it's all whatever how about
you come with me
you film me doing a solo disruption I'm
gonna walk into a place where they abuse
animals and I'm just gonna do a
five-minute speak out we film it we do a
little chant on the way out that's it
right so I met up with him and we did
Whole Foods one do we actually disrupt
it before with the EXCI so it was just
him in the dairy aisle and he did a
five-minute speak out those maybe three
people talking it was more to just to
get it on film right he did a Speak Out
then finally somebody's like you guys
got to leave we're like all right we did
a little chant security guard just kind
of walked behind us we went outside and
what we wanted to do is just challenge
people like go do your own solo
disruption you'd have to wait for the
exceed like just right like if you're if
you because a lot of vegans get that
anger and this could be a good way to
let it out write a poem write something
that you're passionate about and just
talking in a park inside a McDonald's
inside a Popeyes whatever wherever they
explode animals and film it and then
challenge somebody and that's the part
of the solar disruption they were doing
right second time though we stepped it
up and we went into Eden Center which is
the big mall in Toronto and we went into
the food court a lunchtime he stood on a
chair and he started talking about meat
and environment magically I don't know
never nobody came he was able to do five
minutes of the speak up some people even
clapped at the end and then we walked
out usually security guards are on you
that's in that case the audience
appreciated okay it was weird but then
after that people are like oh my god
this is so cool this is inspiring like
because a lot of people don't like DXE I
Eve I've done the XE stuff but more like
low risk and what one difference here I
note is that you're not actually trying
to stop them eating the meal you're kind
of doing a five-minute presentation
Rock team per se we really do not
speaking loudly about facts of animals
right and then some people are like shut
up but we do our thing and we walk we're
not touching anybody we're not violent
and that's it and we just want people to
do it as well
yeah mosquitos coming in okay no
mosquitoes were harmed in the creation
yeah so that's the part of the solo
disruption and then what happened was
after the debate
gwon Eden Center we're kind of like and
a little high and then we're like how
about we do some Street interview so we
went back into the mall and interviewed
I think three different people and what
he did it with the way he framed it was
he started talking about abuse and he
started talking about abuse with kids
abuse in general what's your definition
of abuse then tied it in to animals and
then in which this with a microphone on
the camera yeah so dirty
I'll put we'll put links to those videos
as well yeah I mean with those kinds of
one-on-one conversations I find they
often happen almost because the camera
is there right it's no well we well the
way we approach it is like hey would you
want to be in a YouTube video we're
talking about abuse right we don't say
we're V understand understand right and
it people are coming to the conclusion
on their own and most people I thought
that people are gonna be like oh this is
vegan stuff I'm you know how to mount
right yeah they they actually stick to
it and then at the end has been a very
positive result that whether they go
vegan or not like the seeds were
definitely planted and I don't know you
we come up with a lot of people that are
actually really compassionate which yeah
I would think that just I asked and
random people are gonna be like I don't
care leave me leave me alone leave me
but your experience thus far has been
really positive yeah well I mean the
last time I did straight-up Street
activism just talking to strangers on
the street I was there for like four
hours let's say no and I either had one
meaningful conversation or two out of
the out of the four hours you know and
otherwise people just walk past or they
don't talk to you one guy came over I
don't really blame him we had one really
good-looking woman with us on the he
came over you know just yeah III said
okay you know you want to talk with news
like no no no no dude don't screw this
up from huge trying to get on one of our
whatever activism for this anyway yeah
these you know it's it's hard to be
beautiful you know I mean short term and
long term and one of my questions is
about you know is this an effective use
of people's time it's great you had a
positive experience I'm not discounting
that at all I mean the other thing is to
me you've already had some experience
with DXE lately on my channel and with a
bunch of DXE insiders that's what I'm
talking about you know what one woman
said to me who's a longtime DXE insider
I think she's been in
she's been in the central circle of the
group since like 2012 or something
really since the beginning she said you
know for her this is our perspective I'm
like I'm interested here if you disagree
said you know these group protests of
the disruption protests where whatever
maybe it's 12 people then I'm not
normally huge groups like that but
whatever it has 8 12 people 12 you said
the main effect the main ideological
function is that it makes the protesters
feel like the general public hates you
this culture doesn't understand you
nobody accepts you no one wants to hear
message but we love you we accept you
like we get direct action if we're your
fellow protesters or whatever they
create it deepens the in-group verses
out group mentality so I mean to me I
was like you know what that's a really
interesting observation and what she
compared it to is this she said you know
there are religious groups that go out
on the street to allegedly convert
people their religion and whether
Hinduism or Christianity and she pointed
out she said you know the real function
of that is not to find people who want
to join this religion because if that's
what you were doing you do it in a
complete every way the real function of
this is to confront strangers in this
way then again the real effect of the
real function is this kind of alienation
of the protesters and the rest of the
city we're making them feel more aware
of it and then deepening that sense of
connection you know within the group now
ok so this is an interesting perspective
from someone who's a disillusioned DXE
inside who see and who's seen the
effects on a lot of people over a long
time um you know the other side of that
I gotta say is I think that the main
motivation what up John recording
YouTube video you want to jump in this
John sack arse off camera I kid you not
Google we're talking about activism in
bathrooms I can't help you yeah my
viewers gonna think I was making that up
but no oh you know I think one of the
big motivations really is that people
don't want to feel alone they don't want
to feel powerless they don't want to
feel like they can't make a difference
and you know I mean it sounds to me like
in a positive sense this experience is
you know yeah I know I don't know I've
had a little bit of both like some some
disruptions I felt they were powerful
like the ones that let's say after the
March there's probably gonna be
something and last year we did the
Marcin then we walked into even Center
and we just did a little kind of like
song and a little speak out like a poem
almost those like I can't I can get
behind it's a bit it was a big group and
we just spoke we didn't we weren't
pointing fingers we weren't attacking
anybody we just we just kind of gave our
piece and then we walked out right
there's been all the ones the ones that
they go into like supermarkets and those
I don't know those things
I'm trying to pull myself to two and a
half years ago when I was in vegan if I
was just buying my stuff and then people
come in like you know like I think I
would have made me think about it but in
a way they're it's too in-your-face it's
jus like no it's like people saying
Jesus right I feel it it's too much and
that's why we were so it's also the
opposite of Socratic method I'm an
sinner because the the proposal this
talk was was Socratic method I mean okay
let me put it this way all the people I
know and sermons know here means like
I've had a couple Facebook messages and
I mean I know them deeply personally but
all the people I know who did the really
anguish emotional style of activism
you know DXE they still do it but in the
old days especially they'd have a young
woman standing there weeping and
screaming at people this chicken
suffered so much just all of them regret
all the ones I know regret it and you
know I just did some videos talking
about a young activists I think she's
still 15 or 16 she started age 14 when
you're 24 you might look like this but
this is bringing back to Socrates
Socratic method this is what's
interested me is this is the opposite of
Socratic method right Socrates didn't
try to change his society by breaking
down weeping on the street by having
this kind of anguished and vulnerable
presentation as long as the reasons I
was so interested in being part of this
project because like yes we're doing
kind of like kind of like DXE but like
in our own terms and like I said we're
not we're not we're not disrupting we're
just speaking out that it's more of a
speak out we call it solo disruption was
more like a soul to speak out yeah and
then he had the idea to do the Socratic
and yeah I thought the same like that's
very opposite and then people people
loved it in the experience like I said
it was just very positive and I think it
had a big bigger impact than the big
disruptions and it has a bigger impact
or
similar impact like cubes with cubes I
had really good conversations as well
I'm very positive but I find that with
this Socratic method on on the
interviews right before answering their
own questions they're coming up they're
thinking okay my values are here but I'm
doing this my actions oh [ __ ] and then a
lot of people don't even know the
process some ladies like oh I don't
think they stop pigs to to kill them
like well right and by work we're like
giving them information let's go let's
the recording yeah we're giving them
information and then at the end we're
kind of using like well here's some
resources now that you know some of the
facts here research it on your own and
then I follow up with a couple of people
that I talk they still like follow me on
Instagram and so they're still kind of
like involved and I know some of them
I've like cut down meat and stuff so I
know that they're you saying yes they've
been my actual right stick with the
example that he did this because we're
then the I take it the example of abuse
is Socratic method yes well you're
starting what kind of asking people like
what is the meaning of abuse some of
this yeah yes so yeah we started with
abuse or started framing it like define
it and then do you think then we try to
connect it with children and then with
puppies and then we put it towards pigs
and then then we start talking like oh
do you leave like bacon and and then we
started going into like the facts of the
industry and asking them do you think
it's ethical how do you justify it right
the second time we did it we did it
talking about it was in abuse it was oh
my god I think it was murder yeah it was
murder so how do you define murder and
then we stopped we started talking about
the human and then we kind of connected
it with hunting and then factory farming
and we just we just some of them when
like they're all like 15 minutes almost
even half an hour and there are just
really good conversation and I know that
people were really interested in
actually you may you can see that they
were thinking about it and they're gonna
go home and you know what I'm gonna look
into it and because the way my friend
Mitch is doing it he he has that very
calm you can tell he's very well
educated as well he's not pushy he's
just very relate in like and using terms
like we like we promote this kind
stuff we support this kind of food not
like cold you are the one supporting I
like right you wanna you want to keep
them you don't have the point being here
we as a society consume 10 million pigs
as a day or whatever the number is not
to say you were the one killing 10
million pigs a day and whatever he goes
last one was very into zones a guy from
Mexico that was a half an hour talk and
by the end he he said that he he tried
going vegan at one point and know that
we need meat and culture though and that
he gave us all the those in one video
but then at the end he's like well he I
think people just should eat more plants
and more and then he showed us that he
had like fruits and stuff so we're a
little confused by him but I think what
we're gonna do is we're gonna do a video
breaking down that because he gave us
all of those and and in a way it was
just a conversation when all other place
I'm gonna tell you one brief funny story
about converting people through this
kind of conference converting people to
veganism if I can use the word convert
and then I'm gonna state my kind of
concern about what's happening in the
next five years so back when I was
married I'm now divorced me and my now
ex-wife we were together I was actually
literally holding our baby so this is on
my daughter who's now six years old was
in newborn baby I was standing there and
rocking the baby and this guy was asking
us so many questions about veganism it
was at a vegan event not a vegan
probably they played a film and had a
presentation and then you know there's
kind of a informal Q&A we weren't in
charges event but we start we're one of
the two of the for vegans there we're
doing Q&A on behalf of veganism so it
was a welcome effort this guy is asking
us like what about the Iroquois in
Canada he says in France this guy is a
Muslim immigrant to France North African
French so what about the Iroquois and
what about you know the Mohawk Indians
they were so you know healthy and
powerful he had all these really
specific questions of this putting all
this time and effort answering all these
guys questions and the end of it you
know we'd go home with her with her baby
and it's like wow you know that was so
much effort and like I said I think we
should never do that again it was like
whatever you put in so much time you
know and it seems like you know whatever
we got a newborn child to take care of
there's got to be a better way to do
actually whatever by complete
coincidence my ex-wife bumped into him I
would say six months later something
like that she bumped into him and the
first thing she says oh hi how you doing
oh the other thing to mention this again
this is a problem with attractive women
I really got the vibe even though we
were there with a baby and I'm her
husband I really got the vibe that he
was kind of like enjoying like through
he was kind of flirting with her
attractive / which I'm not the jealous
type but it was like okay this is
enormous man she bumps into him let's
say six months later complete
coincidence at a grocery store she says
to him well you know I guess all that
advice we gave you on this question
answered was was for nothing he was
deeply hurt and offended he was really
shocked and he said no that's not true
at all since the day we had that
conversation
I haven't eaten meat even once I've
completely eliminated dairy and the
conclusion he came to he wasn't
satisfied with all of our answers about
science he concluded that he would eat
meat one day per year but that he would
be vegan 364 days per year that was at
that time now since then I wonder if
he's given up on the one day of eating
nobody did it overnight about what he
was telling us right right that's right
so within within days of him having that
conversation with us he really committed
that way so there you go so is that a
happy story or sad story if we hadn't
bumped into him six months later
Fredman follow-up I would have assumed
that was an aryan force my sense of
these conversations are just a waste of
time talking to some nefesh who wants to
know the details of the iroquois diet in
canada but but it's a Shabazz story
here's here's my concern about the next
five years you when you look at
statistics for people quitting
cigarettes my backgrounds in political
science including social in states when
you look at the statistics there's the
illusion that over time cigarettes have
become more addictive that illusion is
created not because the actual
ingredients of cigarettes have changed
because the people who found it easy to
quit smoking cigarettes have already
quit so when the news first came out
that cigarettes cause cancer all kinds
of people quit smoking cigarettes and
today the people who are still smoking
are precisely the people either for
psychological reasons for whatever
reasons the differences between people
they're the people for whom it is harder
and harder to quit so the actual
efficacy of like programs where people
pay money to be in a
have vasila you know some people do that
kind of stuff the efficacy even of the
drugs when you give people NicoDerm and
nicker like some of these treatments of
them quit the efficacy seems to be
declining because the kind of people
my concern is when I'm talking about the
next five years I think all the people
who were highly motivated to become
vegan and the people who want to be
vegan the people for whom it's easy to
make the transition to be vegan they may
already be vegan you know well you may I
don't know you're vegan story I don't
know for me it were easy but I'm one of
these weirdos I'm one of these early
adopters mine was gonna I went
vegetarian first a year prior I dated my
ex with she was vegetarian and I met a
cow for the first time at a sanctuary in
King City touched his face and I give up
meat I don't know what it was like I it
I'm like you know I can I'm gonna give
up meat so we're a vegetarian so we
didn't know anything vegan right as I
was finishing school funny enough near
here I was doing like running an errand
in my internship and there were some
protesters outside Loblaws Meat Is
Murder blah blah blah and I'm like oh I
give up meat I'm knowing no not knowing
anything I give myself a Padma go I give
up meat right stupid anyways so then on
my way back they give me a flyer but I
was during finals so I left it on my
table my ex got a like from a vegan on
an Instagram and it made her go on a
rabbit hole of veganism so that wakes
she's like hey babe you gotta see this
and this and vegan this and am i okay
let me finish my finals this weekend
we'll watch some stuff finally on the
weekend we watching think of how many
animals he killed just because he was
writing his fight think about college
colleges murder now you know colleges
murder so then on the weekend we watched
Cal Spira see what the Health Forks Over
knives
James ass be some Geary video and then
on a total package from 2016 back to
back to back to back and we're like we
looked at each other like vegan alright
we still had some eggs and cheese so I
went home with those and I wasn't gonna
I'm like I'll eat them and then I'll go
vegan the next day I opened my fridge
the next day I'm like no [ __ ] way
yeah give him away and I just did my
haul everything vegan then I watch
Earthlings three days after and that
broke me it got me angry and I'm like
okay we got to do some activism
we went to our first chicken vigil two
weeks after right and then cubes and
then marches and then next thing I know
here's here's my counter argument it's
not that I'm saying you're wrong it's
that I'm kind of making a making a
warning and I know they're giving an
announcement now so some other activist
events we can go to so you know I had a
girlfriend in Laos in Southeast Asia she
the only Asian girl who never had as a
matter of fact and you know I was really
saying to her if that is actually what
we broke up I said to her look if you
want to be with me you've got to be
vegetarian vegetarians that kind of
minimum commitment here and I met the
family cow so her family owned a cow
that was just this is the best type of
domesticated animal it was just kept to
eat weeds it was kept like a living
lawnmower you know so they didn't they
didn't milk this cow that nx20 Pisco yes
oh yeah yeah to clear clear out
grassland weird when aesthetically
removal there would be jungle if you let
it grow in so they add this this count
and she had some kind of emotional
connection she saw this cow shedding
back to her hometown and HN she hadn't
seen the cow in three years or something
let's say whatever was so she sees this
cow and she's really moved and you kill
and eat cows every day like how you know
it was her answer was oh no I'd never
eat this cat so the you know this guy
you see one cow you have no particular
emotional connect you understand you
didn't grow up with this cow
I'm like I've not pitted a cow but he
can make the connection to all cows
other cows and it inspires him to stay
equals that I didn't know we're yeah or
some other cow somewhere right I'd say
this one but obviously the vast majority
of the population including that
ex-girlfriend of mine and including all
the other people who were staying in the
same residence at your university I mean
you're surrounded by people who are
seeing the same stimulus the same
warning and they're not reacting the way
that you are now but it's a very very
approximate comparison because they look
everyone got told cigarettes cause
cancer cigarettes all just reduce your
bill and some people hear that and get
motivated and say okay
starting at equator and some people
don't so I mean that's my overall
warning or constraint give it up because
I was like that was my last ten box and
I'm like food or cigarettes right so
some people yeah I was disconnected I'm
like I know they're bad and same thing
with like the the food like now being on
the other side you can see why people
like just don't even want to think about
it right and like they're so busy with
life and stressed out like oh I gotta
think now about like what am I know and
a lot of people just from laziness they
won't even want to look at a video or
even think about like yeah that is a cow
or that is someone that I meaning yep
what someone yep okay so we're gonna go
back and do more right we're gonna go
collab with John sack arse here they
have a great great talking you I assume
this will be on your YouTube channel on
my youtube channel we could share the
resources and make it happen
the future of veganism is you I mean
people like to disrespect my truth but
the fact is that you know my name is I
don't know